Example Designs for Timeloop-Accelergy Evaluation System
------------------------------------------------------------
This folder contains some baseline implementations of an Eyeriss-like architecture,a simba-like (NVDLA style) architecture,
a simple weight stationary architecture, a processing-in-memory architecture, and an output stationary architecture.
Please find them in the `designs` folder. 

### System requirement
In order to run the example designs, you need to be either inside a docker with installed tools 
(e.g., [infrastructure docker](https://github.com/Accelergy-Project/accelergy-timeloop-infrastructure) 
or manually install the Accelergy-Timeloop evaluation system. 

### File Structure
- example_designs: 
   - architecture descriptions, compound component descriptions, 
  constraints descriptions, mapper descriptions for the example designs.
   - note that for each architecture, we have 2 constraint files:
        1. *_arch_constraints.yaml describes the necessary hardware and dataflow constraints
        2. *_map_constraits.yaml describes the map space optimizations for the  designs
- layer_shapes: 
    - Example workloads: AlexNet, VGG01, VGG02
- scripts
    - A set of scripts for generating your own workloads in Timeloop format
    - Instructions:
        - `cd scripts`
        - modify the `cnn_layers.py` file to describe your own workload
        - `python3 construct_workloads.py <my_dnn_model_name>`

### Run simulations

To run a simulation using timeloop-accelergy system you should `cd` to the specific design's folder and run timeloop
simulations on a specific workload

Here is an example for running AlexNet Layer1 on the `simple_weight_stationary` architecture: 
```
cd example_designs/simple_weight_stationary
timeloop-mapper arch/simple_weight_stationary.yaml arch/components/*.yaml mapper/mapper.yaml constraints/*.yaml ../../layer_shapes/AlexNet/AlexNet_layer1.yaml
```

You will see the following outputs generated:
- timeloop-mapper.accelergy.log: accelergy's runtime info while generating the ERT.
- timeloop-mapper.ART.yaml: the area reference table generated by Accelergy for the architecture
- timeloop-mapper.ART_summary.yaml: the area reference table for the components as well as the associated plug-ins used for generating the outputs.
- timeloop-mapper.ERT.yaml: the energy reference table generated by Accelergy for the architecture.
- timeloop-mapper.ERT_summary.yaml: the energy reference table for the components as well as the associated plug-ins used for generating the outputs.
- timeloop-mapper.flattened_architecture.yaml: the fully defined and flattened architecture interpreted by Accelergy.
- timeloop-mapper.log: timeloop runtime info.
- timeloop-mapper.map.txt: the best mapping found by Timeloop mapper.
- timeloop-mapper.stats.txt: the runtime behaviors of the components in the design generated by Timeloop.
- timeloop-mapper.ma+stats.xml: the raw information generated by Timeloop -- you don't need to read into it.

If you prefer to run the simulation in background without the interactive thread updates, please trun of the `live-status` flag in
`mapper/mapper.yaml` in each design folder.

** Note that for the provided designs and workloads, your simulation should generally converge within 30 mins. Once you see
the simulations converging, you can press `ctrl + C` to manually stop them. They sometimes will take much longer to 
automaticaly stop as we set the converging criteria to be pretty high to avoid early-stop with subooptimal mappings. 
Please use you own judgement. **


###  Related reading
 - [eyeriss-like design](https://people.csail.mit.edu/emer/papers/2017.01.jssc.eyeriss_design.pdf)
 - [simba-like architecture](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~ysshao/assets/papers/shao2019-micro.pdf)
 - simple weight stationary architecture: you can refer to the related lecture notes
 - simple output stationary architecture: you can refer to the related lecture notes
